//List with items needed for the project

-an Arduino board (I used an Uno R3)
-one breadboard
-one 8x8 led dot matrix
-8 220Ω resistors
-jumper wires


//Build the circuit

(check the img_schematic)

The led dot matrix has 16 pins , 8 pins for each row and 8 pins for each column.
We connect the row pins with the Arduino's D0-D7 digital pins (we connect each row pin through a resistor 
to an Arduino's digital pin). 
We connect the column pins as following:
  the first column->digital pin 8
  the second column->digital pin 9
  the third column->analog pin A0 (we use it as a digital pin here)
  .... 
  the eighth column->analog pin A5


It is really important to understand that each led in the matrix has 2 pins ,one connected to a row pin and 
the other one connected to a column pin.
In my led dot matrix,the anode of each one led is connected to a row pin
and the cathode to a column pin.For example, the led that is placed on the [i,j] position of the matrix is connected as follows:
its anode is connected to the i row pin and its cathode to the j column pin.

The above about the leds'connection is not always the case.You must check the datasheet of your dot matrix to find out
the connection. 
It is really important to find out 
1)which physical pin of the matrix corresponds to which column or row pin !!!!
2)if the anode or the cathode of each led is connected to a row or column pin !!!


//the critical point of the project..HOW CAN WE CREATE THE IMAGE 0N THE MATRIX?

We take advantage of the fact that "Arduino is much faster than the human eye"  

At each moment,we turn on ONLY one row .(there are comments in the arduino sketch that explain all this procedure)
For this particular row, we turn on ONLY the leds/dots that are part of the heart image.
Then,We turn off ALL the leds and we move to the row below ,for which we do exactly the same things.
When we reach the last row we do exactly the same things and then we move to the first row and we repeat the
same procedure.

If this loop takes place with a f>100 Ηz(arduino uno's clock frequency is equal to 16Mhz..so no problem with that),
then the human eye will see a static image , which is composed of the leds that we turn on at each row.
 

 


 





 
